Adding blog post 2 (#7)
msse-2021-bootcamp/team2-blog: _posts/2021-08-10-Day-2-Post.md

---
layout: post

> title: "The three Musketeers: Monte Carlo, Monty Python and Lennard Jones"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "The Three Musketeers: Monte Carlo, Monty Python and Lennard Jones"
```

author: Usman Jamshed
---

# Monte Carlo Simulations!

> Traditional integration techniques are very efficient in solving simple integrals, however sometimes integrals can be impoosible to evaluate analytically leading to the use of Monte Carlo simulations. This method uses repeated random sampling to **estimate** the outcomes of an event. Using this technique, impossible to analytically calculate integrals become much more mangeable. However, due to the nature of repeated random sampling a large number of observations needs to be conducted to ensure an accurate estimate. Thus, a balance between speed and accuracy needs to be met, where the simulation is fast (lower number of observations) and accurate (higher number of observations) to the true result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditional integration techniques are very efficient in solving simple integrals, however sometimes integrals can be impossible to evaluate analytically, leading to the use of Monte Carlo simulations. This method uses repeated random sampling to **estimate** the outcomes of an event. Using this technique, integrals that are virtually impossible to analytically calculate become much more manageable. However, due to the nature of repeated random sampling a large number of observations needs to be conducted to ensure an accurate estimate. Thus, a balance between speed and accuracy needs to be met, where the simulation is both fast (lower number of observations) and accurate (higher number of observations) to the true result.
```

# Lennard Jones Potentials!

> The Lennard Jones Potential is an approximation of the energy of nonbonded interations (Equation 1). It is a pairwise potential and can be visualized as a graph with two main sections, a repulsive part and an attractive part. Starting far apart, the pair of atoms have negligible interactions and their potenial is ~0, however as you bring them closer together the interaction becomes attactive until a global minimum value of -1 is reached. After this point bringing them any further, causes the interaction to become repulsive with energy potentials reaching infinity as the distance between them approaches 0. Conducting the approximation in reduced units is ideal because using SI units makes the values incredibility inconvinient to work with due to their very large or very small values and the inherent floating point error. The total pair potential energy of a system of particles can also be calculated, by calculating the sum of the Lennard Jones energy over all pairwise interations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lennard Jones Potential is an approximation of the energy of nonbonded interactions (Equation 1). It is a pairwise potential and can be visualized as a graph with two main sections, a repulsive domain and an attractive domain. At a relatively great distance, the pair of atoms have negligible interactions and their potential is ~0. However as the particles are brought closer together, the interaction becomes attractive until the point $$r_m$$, where the potential energy is at a minimum of - $\varepsilon$ . At closer distances, the repulsive interactions overtake the attractive forces. The energy potential rising exponentially as the distance between them approaches 0. Conducting the approximation in reduced units is ideal because using SI units makes the values incredibility inconvenient to work with due to their very large or very small values and the inherent floating point error. The total pair potential energy of a system of particles can also be calculated by calculating the sum of the Lennard Jones energies over all pairwise interactions. 
```

<center>

<img src = '{{ "/images/Lennard-Jones_potential.png" | relative_url }}'>  

***Figure 1**: Graph of the Lennard Jones Potential, taken from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lennard-Jones_potential#/media/File:Graph_of_Lenanrd-Jones_potential.png*
</center>

$$ U^*\left(r_{ij} \right) = 4 \left[\left(\frac{1}{r^*_{ij}}\right)^{12} -\left(\frac{1}{r^*_{ij}}\right)^{6} \right] $$
***Equation 1**: Reduced Lennard Jones potential equation*

# Python!

> Writing code is a useful skill but documenting your code is an essential good coding practice. Writing docstrings within functions gives other programmers a rough idea of what your function does and what its parameters are. To write a docstring, start by writing three quotes and seperating them with a line. Begin your docstring with a title of the function followed up with a short description (sometimes a title is descriptive enough). After the introduction you should write out the parameters used by the function as well as their data type and a short description. Then you should write what the function returns as well as its data type and a short description. Finally, you can conclude your docstring with some examples and the expected output. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing code is a useful skill but documenting your code is an essential good coding practice. Writing docstrings within functions gives other programmers a rough idea of what your function does and what its parameters are. To write a docstring, start by writing three quotes and separating them with a line. Begin your docstring with a title of the function followed up with a short description (sometimes a title is descriptive enough). After the introduction you should write out the parameters used by the function as well as their data type and a short description. Then you should write what the function returns as well as its data type and a short description. Finally, you can conclude your docstring with some examples and the expected output. 
```

{% highlight python %}
    """
    The LJ interaction energy between two particles.

    Computes the pairwise Lennard Jones interaction energy based on the separation distance in reduced units.

    Parameters
    ----------
    r_ij : float
        The distance between the particles in reduced units.
    
    Returns
    -------
    pairwise_energy : float
        The pairwise Lennard Jones interaction energy in reduced units.

    Examples
    --------
    >>> calculate_LJ(1)
    0

    """
{% endhighlight %}

> Testing and debugging code is another useful skill and can be done painlessly using the **assert** function in python. To use it, write assert followed by an argument that you believe is true. If it is indeed true, when you run the command nothing will happen. However if it is false, then you will get an assertion error which you will need to troubleshoot.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing and debugging code is another useful skill and can be done painlessly using the **assert** function in python. To use it, write assert followed by a condition that you believe is true. If the condition evaluates to True, the program will continue to run. However if the condition returns False, the assert function will raise an assertion error at that point, at which you will need to troubleshoot the code.  
```
